Aethernaut Bios

Chloé Cramer
Born in Geneva, living in Brussels. She shares her time between assisting
fiction film directors, performing for *N3krozoft * and directing video for
the scenography of various stage performances (dance and theater)

Christiaan Cruz
A Southern California based photographer/DBA analyst by trade. Interest 
in human interaction, ownership, and appropriate design prompted 
networked pieces; some of which have used water, Jovian waves, and 
motorbikes.


cym (NL/A/SLO) traveling through Europe with laptop and digital camera, 
explores the relations between virtual reality and real life. Her 
redevelopment of an old small village farm into an art center in 
south-east Austria inspires her work. These natural suroundings and the 
long history of the building have been incorporated into her Aether9 
contributions.

Dhanya Pilo (aka VJ Decoy) works as a film maker, designer and a 
visual artist from her studio in Mumbai, the teeming hub of 
Indiaís artistic and film community.

Frauke Frech (DE)
In her performance based works -mainly dance, video, and installation, 
she focuses on the discrepance of analog and digital world, of 
individual and society. Since 2008 she is performing for aether9.

Paula Vélez
Media and video artist, vj, super8 activist, involved in musical and 
cultural project management. Member of Aether9 since 2007. Interest 
in home-made technology span into documentary work with communities 
to solve social and enviromental problems.

ideacritik
Interests focus on ways to interface community storytelling and in 
creating communication possibilities in unlikely scenarios. M.A. 
Media Design (2007) from the Piet Zwart Institute, Rotterdam, NL. 
Teacher at Gerrit Rietveld Academie (NL), member of genderchangers; 
a collective of women which promote the exchange of technical 
skills between women, member of Aether9; collective exploring the 
dramaturgical possibilities of remote realtime storytelling.

Judy Nylon
Originally from Cambridge, Massachusetts, influenced by the museum 
collections of old Boston plus the twentieth century tech 
inventions of Polaroid, Harvard and M.I.T.  Trained in the 
philosophy of sedition as per local Irish tradition, then launched 
back at England, Judy was part of Londonís first wave of British 
Punk.  The resonating influence of her thinking has been 
critically acknowledged in the analysis of other collaborations 
with fellow artists, principally John Cale and Eno.  Judy joined 
in the aether9 project on July 07 drawn to the development of 
narrative co-authorship, many to many broadcast, and new 
performative techniques for emerging art disciplines.

The League of Imaginary Scientists
Lucy H G is a media artist, a filmmaker, and the interdisciplinary 
research coordinator for the League of Imaginary Scientists.  Her 
visual experiments, creative diagrams, and interactions fit in 
between realms, where microbiology mingles with geopolitics and 
mechanical engineering animates human biology.

Manuel Schmalstieg
Born 1976, Manuel Schmalstieg operates on the borderline between video, 
performance and software art, exploring new creative territories that 
straddle between the virtual and the real.

Mari Keski-Korsu 
[Finland] (b. 1976) is an artist, initiator and organizer. She is 
interested in storytelling and moments that befall.  She explores 
i.e. nations as imaginary communities, tourism, presented identities 
and especially causalities of eco-social and structural changes in 
peopleís everyday life. She works with mixed and locative media 
applying process oriented methods. She is/has been concentrated on 
i.e. net and video art, streaming happenings and live visual mixing. 
Her works has been shown around Finland and in several countries. 
She has a MA in new media (digital authoring) from University of 
Arts and Design Helsinki and BA in visual arts from Polytech of 
Western Lapland.

Laure de Selys
Video artist filming abroad.

Boris Kish
Media artist and filmmaker.
b. 1978 – http://n3krozoft.com

Vinny Bhagat aka Shivnakaun {AV~Productions} 
Vinny Bhagat aka Shivnakaun is a sound artist and musician researching in the field of computational electro acoustic music and audio-visual art and technology. His work explores digital sound generative and synthesis methods , physical interaction and models for performance and composition.He is deeply interested in spontaneous art / music performances , distributed online performances and the connection between sound and moving image in a live performance context.
Born in New Delhi – India, he studied Music Technology and Electronic Music at The Elder Conservatorium Of Music.
http://shivnakaun.com


